Noita: implementation (#989)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: worlds/noita/docs/en_Noita.md

# Noita

## Where is the settings page?

The [player settings page for this game](../player-settings) contains all the options you need to configure and export a
config file.

## What does randomization do to this game?

Noita is a procedurally generated Roguelike. During runs in Noita you will find potions, wands, spells, perks and
chests. For purposes of Archipelago multiworld functionality, collecting chests, results in an item check. Noita items 

> that can be found in other players games include, gold, max health increase, spell refresh, wands and perks. 

Reviewer: It says perks can be found in the other games here but I don't see perks below in the list under "What Noita items can appear in other players' worlds?" nor do I see it in Items.py. Is there a reason it isn't there?

Could orbs also be included (as an option)? I'm not sure if other items should also be included or not (broken wand, eggs, the house thing that heals you, elemental rocks, etc) but I think the more unique items (instead of gold which I'd argue against), the more it will promote more versatility and communication with the other AP players (when it involves shops).

Author: Perks aren't yet implemented, I tried some testing with perks in the pool, and without making them extreamly rare ended up with a mega build super early and runs became trivial so decided to drop them, but I'm in two minds about that. This is all up for testing and tweaking, for future enhancements I also want to implement mini boss locations and get the location logic working.

I'll take another look at this tonight, I think you're right on the gold front, a more diverse set of items would make this more interesting.

Reviewer: Noted. You're right and not all perks may be welcome.

> Additionally, within your player settings yaml you can enable "Bad items" in the pool, resulting in negative effects on 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, within your player settings YAML you can enable "Bad items" in the pool, resulting in negative effects on 
```
Edit to be consistent with this implementation's setup guide.

the Noita world.

> As chests are quite rare in the Noita world, options in the Archipelago Noita mod allow you to set a kil count spawn for

Reviewer 3: "allow you to set a kill count to spawn chests."

chests. 

## What is the goal of Noita 

> The vanilla (obvious) goal of Noita is to progress through each of the levels and fight the final boss, after defeating
> the final boss and ending the game this the credits will roll. The Archipelago implementation in Noita however, is an 
> "Endless run" continuing runs after death or even after finishing the game until all location checks are completed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The vanilla goal of Noita is to progress through each level and beat the final boss.
In the Archipelago implementation, however, you play an "endless run"; when you die or
beat the final boss, you continue playing from the beginning until all locations have been
checked.
```
I have never played this randomizer, and I have never played this game. This is my attempt at pruning/translating this paragraph; if I have a misconception, I got it from the original text, so it'd probably worth editing regardless.

Starting a fresh run after death or unlocking one of the endings can re-deliver previous rewards (excluding bad events). 

> As the standard wand, potion and perk pool are unaffected by the multiworld item pools this should not present an issue 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The standard wand, potion and perk pool are unaffected by the multiworld item pools, so this should not present an issue 
```

with progression.

## What Noita items can appear in other players' worlds?

Positive rewards can be:

* `Gold (10 - 1000)` 
* `Heart` 
* `Spell Refresh` 
* `Random Wand (Tiers 1 - 6)` 
* `Potion`

Negative rewards consist of all "Bad" and "Awful" events from the native stream integration, some examples:

* `Slow Player` 
* `Trailing Lava` 
* `Worm Rain` 
* `Spawning black holes`

### How many items are there?

You can configure the number of item checks that will be present in the Noita world within the player settings yaml, by

> default this is set to 100. After all checks are completed any further chests opened will be empty. For high location 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
default this is set to 100. After all checks are completed, any further chests opened will be empty. For high location 
```

> counts it is recommended to use a lower setting for number of kills required to spawn a chest.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
counts, it is recommended to use a lower setting for number of kills required to spawn a chest.
```

> ## What does another world's item look like in Noita

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## What does another world's item look like in Noita?
```

> All chests in the game will perform an item check and drop a banner featuring the archipelago logo, the in game console
> will confirm what items was sent or received when collecting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All chests in the game will perform an item check and drop a banner featuring the Archipelago logo. The in-game console
will confirm which items were sent or received when collecting.
```

> ## Is Archipelago compatible with other Noita mods

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Is Archipelago compatible with other Noita mods?
```

> Yes, other Noita mods should work just fine, however avoid any mods which alter in game chests as this will likely clash

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Yes, other Noita mods should work just fine. However, avoid any mods which alter in-game chests, as this will likely clash
```
